good they go away again just keep going
in and out so that we can compress when
you come smaller he comes sharper he's
keeping a good frame today looks good in
the mouth that's it shorter and sharper
going to the large cross click to her
and she should just run loose rein
guiding back to the middle loose rein
guiding let head carriage keep running
up to the middle slow down loose rein
small slow alright so I can turn my
waist independent a bat of my weight my
weights still 5050 when i turn my waist
here most of us when we turn our waist
and you'll find it in the saddle when I
say okay I want your belly button to the
outside here to engage the haunches we
lead our way to the outside we get a
little bit of haunches out rather than a
true then so on the ground we'll see if
we can free up the lower back now this
exercise is very good to keep them
together it's quite tight to the
distance so they really have to come
from behind good here
the question is what is the minimum
level of horsemanship that one has to
have before you have all of the other
qualities that a judge requires well you
know thinking of the the top level I
mean they don't have to be Olympic
medalists but I do think it's important
that they have a feel for the for the
training and a little bit for what it's
like as a competitor no I think it makes
a big difference sage is 20 and she will
have stiffening in the body because of
her age this is just a fun exercise for
as well as helping to fear upper mid two
Springs bit of variety into the written
one she pulled a little bit to the right
just as he she got to the fence but she
did lope all the way up to the fence I
was happy with that if she she kind of
did a little bitty sliding stop here at
the fence and once I've got a running
straight then I'm gonna start adding a
little speed the horse has got to have
quite a bit of momentum to do a sliding
stop so I'm gonna start adding some
speed and just make sure that she still
stays straight run straight what's in
the mind of selector how do you do your
job it's actually a lot easier than it
sounds because the horses pick pick
themselves it's based on the
international schools and their
international performance the hardest
part is recognizing really the weighting
of one result against the other and
balancing a result against the other and
so that for instance of our recent
riders Emmer and Laura have been getting
fantastic results in Germany and you
know God's got to be good for a
championship when we turn our chest we
use the usually lift it so to counter
that I say slouch drop the sternum down
there now the haunches are engaged he's
stepping under his Center he said he's
tracking up well you're not pulling on
the the rain to get him around and as
the haunches truly engage you don't need
to use the outside leg to keep them in